written in lowercase what is the only
three-letter word that looks the same
when spun upside down the answer at the
end of this grand final
welcome to the lateral grand final two
teams here who have battled through all
the series so far one of them will be
walking out with the trophy and we start
with I'm Simon Clark I'm sorry page and
together we are a team of Ivor as I keep
calling you I keep shortening this you
are undefeated so far that's gonna
change I have no doubt come on go in
pessimistic you're rarely disappointed
well your first game was really clubs
your first game came down to the wire
your second game you actually didn't
answer a question in the final I was
told to sit on my hands for that one and
I did your opponent's just got
completely locked out do you think
that's an advantage or disadvantage do
you need the experience yeah it's the
last round and they have played another
round more than us say they are a little
bit more experienced at this game but
more tired and facing you is a
completely not good team terminator
county helen Arnie yes does yeah not yes
I mean you have blasted your way through
you had one defeat on the way here but
that's all yes you've taken the slightly
longer path yeah this is a rematch isn't
it yeah this was the first game and it
was very close back then
new questions it all comes down to this
very best of luck to both of you let's
play round one
you both know how it works by now six
questions 60 seconds the quicker you
buzz in the more points you get that the
less clues you will have heard we can
start with you
your first question is horse races beer
road signs precious metals and land
what's the link between them giving the
prize and guineas these are some of the
few exceptions that are still allowing
imperial units just in the nick of time
for three points are they measured in
imperial units yes they are in the UK
those are the few things that still use
Imperial three points straight off you
are off the mark and we go over to team
Terminator in 1925 dr. Crippen almost
met a sticky end when he was rescued
from the locked chamber of a building on
fire in the same disaster despite
desperate efforts to save them sportsman
Nobles and over 40 MPs perished and many
others were badly disfigured which
London venue had burned down on four
points the houses of parliament did not
house of low house fire in 1925 that is
not the correct answer the question goes
over to the other team in the clock
restarts you don't have to answer and
you can buzz in whenever you want okay
let's make another place right no one
was actually killed in this
Oh was it Madame Tussauds oh yeah Madame
Tussauds is correct for three points
they were wax figures that burned down
sticky ends is the keyword in their next
question is also to you
in 1933 activist Chowdhury ramit Ali
wrote ins pamphlets now-or-never that
thirty million Muslim brethren lived in
five eastern regions of the British Raj
Punjab Afghan iya Kashmir Sindh and
Balochistan I think respect how is this
approximately j'en known today I think
as that's what the division was between
India Bangladesh Bangladesh is not the
correct answer so the whole question
gets thrown over buzz if you want to
mirror isn't that is the disputed should
we wait for one more no hang on
yeah let's hold up this is a current
country yes it is for three points
what's the clue hidden in that question
I thought it was but there were thirty
million Muslim brethren in India and it
was like a trick question no think
Sally's just figured out it is an
acronym yeah it's a portmanteau it's all
those names jammed together so yes three
points to team terminator and the next
question is yours foremost card games
the Aces are generally regarded as the
most important cards in the pack but it
hasn't always been this way which major
historical event of the late 18th
century is said by experts to have been
a catalyst for this change right
ah it's gonna be the revolution French
Revolution something like yes all the
Americans were for American independent
no but for France has originally the ace
was the least important previously Dax
mostly simple but the kill that meant
the King was the most important so that
they're like it was almost like he had
to are we great Josiah we're gonna go
with the French Revolution I think we
should do it for three points the French
Revolution is correct yeah absolutely
right King used to be the most important
card and then the ace was placed on top
which ties the scores next question is
on the buzzer for both teams so if
you're ready have a look at this why do
Americans count the number of chirps a
cricket makes in 15 seconds and then add
404 points right away is exactly the
correct answer to what you're absolutely
right I need it in Fahrenheit in there
as well it's that's the adding 40 the
crickets get faster as it gets warmer
which for someone who is working on a
PhD about insect biology I thought that
was gonna be a home question when I saw
last question in this round the Russian
botanist Nikolai Vavilov spent 1924 in
Afghanistan to study their farming
culture he noticed that inherit province
they had hundreds of huge dove cuts
apart from food why did they need so
many pigeons Oh
for four points again Pope is a den the
correct answer the only way to fertilize
the soil there was through guano I'm
just gonna say I've been thinking a lot
about pigeon through recently for
reasons that I shan't go into now I mean
at the end of the scores were tied but
now at the end of round one they are 14
to 6
round two is second thought you'll know
how this works we're going to see a
board with 12 clues on it what is the
thing that all pointing to team driver
you are gonna be going first pick a
number
number 12 for five points solid rocket
rocket is not what I've got
so I'm number six number six Shakespeare
well you know he said Caesar and I
reckon we'll just say Caesar because
they stole our electromagnet so I'm
gonna say Caesar it is the correct
answer
astonishingly you've got a load of
points in the last game you know your
opponents in the last game stole points
essentially by overhearing you and this
time it worked the other way so that is
five points over here and you get the
first pick of the next board number ten
recommended for travelers bomb bags is
not the answer
I don't think they've actually been
recommended like bombs is gonna be an
answer at some point I thought I'd try
and get it it is bum bag not this time
okay so four or five points number three
number three sometimes mandatory
vaccinations it's a good guess based on
those two but it's not what I've got so
passing it back over he's going number
one number one no one picked number one
national or private insurance is correct
national insurance or private insurance
sometimes required and recommend for
travelers so that's another four points
over you guys okay over there
the first picks yours it's fine
number seven engagement okay don't say
anything we made the mistake last time
prior prior is not what I've got so I'm
passing it back over for five points
nine number nine suit Oh
all I think I know what this is already
yeah I think it's diamonds and you're
right for five points that's astonishing
cat I may have been engaged twice let's
still that's guy there's still five
points left in this game your first pick
off the next ball right so let's go
number four number four I must be chosen
to join if you're a chosen one to be
joined religion it must be yeah WI the
WI not the right answer so passing it
back over number nine number nine in a
palace I don't think you're chosen to be
the king of Queen of England
oh well okay what are you doing I need
an answer please the monarch of England
no he's not right so passing it back
over hi
number two green seats oh well the green
seats is one of them's green and one of
them's red is House Parliament now I'm
panicking because it's turn its
westminster wheatridge and you have to
be a lord as well I need an answer
Lambeth Palace I think the green seats
are the elected MPs aren't they the
green is MBA so it's the House of
Commons is the correct answer for that
is a clean sweep of round two really
high scores which leaves us with a 26
point difference fine it can be done
good luck
the last round of the grand final is
quick thought you both know how it works
as three minutes forty on your clock for
that massive advantage there is one
minute keep saying it your clock is
gonna start counting down first buzzing
stop the clock get it right
to start your opponents get it wrong ten
seconds away in your clock starts again
everyone's ready in France which date or
event is referred to as Georgie George
or is this day so it's like media the
English equivalent is also a literate
'iv this is one of the most famous
events in history French Revolution
liberation this is in 1944 d-day d-day
d-day is correct the d-day landings
three minutes forty on your clock what
kind of person might do a finger thumb
blur for fun finger fumbling we can wait
we get the clue yeah yeah as the name
implies if you get it wrong it could be
painful oh is it like a knife throwing
yeah it's knife juggling it's an
equivalent activity to a tongue twister
a tongue twister finger fumbling like a
like a Rubik's Cube like it's it's a
type of person that uses their digits a
lot magician yeah
a close-up magician no it's a deaf
person is they full of a tongue twister
in sign language so your clock restarts
with 10 seconds less on it which reggae
and pop group took their name for the
application form for unemployment ub40
is correct
55 2.7 seconds on your clock in the
Bible who instantly killed exactly 25
percent of the world's population
oh it's which one killed Cain and Abel
which one killed
Cain is correct Cain slew Abel 2 minutes
45 which video gaming device was
inspired by the way that sumo wrestlers
weigh themselves how do you sue my
wrestlers weigh themselves
I um do they hang off her sumo wrestlers
are heavy I mean yeah but that wasn't
the question and we know that heavy but
how do they weigh so heavy they have to
weigh themselves on two scales they have
to devise a Wii what a joystick Oh
moving their weight side to side change
the reading oh oh is the way we
surfboard we surfboard II thing where
you stand
I hate it it's the Wii Fit balance board
yes you're right forty-seven point three
on your clock dot dash dash dot dash dot
was added to the Morse code in 2004 to
represent which character can you repeat
it please dash dash dash dot it was the
first character to be added since World
War two
the app symbol is correct two minutes
and 12 on your clock complete this quote
by Will Rogers the trouble with
political jokes is that they often get
voted to be President of the United
States topped off there's only one word
missing the problem with political jokes
is that they often get failed well
electors is exactly the correct word
27.7 which term for a prestigious
successful company comes from the
highest denomination of token used in
casinos like a bar is the tokens have a
fairly common name no chip blue chip
yeah blue chip is correct yes one minute
53 which two digits shirt number is
given to England cricket player Joe root
for One Day Internationals I mean should
we just take the hit on this yeah let's
go no it's colonists surname it's 66
route 66 which company has a name
meaning three diamonds in Japanese yeah
gone no it's mixed submission there were
those three diamonds which artwork
features the words I pressed the
fire-control and ahead of me rockets
blazed through the sky what was the
question which artwork isn't it boil it
the patent the paintings title is part
of the artwork this Luton stop
it's it's the it's a defining piece of
pop art yeah it's really but I comment
what it's called it's called rockets or
something like no it was called Wow
yeah so that's another 10 seconds away
39.1 on the clock which - Gaelic sports
differ by only one letter as hurling and
curling hurling and is correct ten point
seven on your flock which Southwest
Township to Johannesburg was established
in 1963 Pretoria no it's not it was
Soweto
and you don't have 10 seconds to give so
the victors our team Terminator
commiserations to the previously
unstoppable team by burn into their lead
you did it was cloaks there were only a
few points in it and congratulations to
the incredibly well named team
terminators yeah the trophy is yours
there we go take it it's all yours we'd
like to dedicate this to our mother for
making us
I said Cohen got used to seeing unison
even though I've never seen you know
it's a cognitive dissonance